hey everybody this is Joe Hudson and I
wanted to talk today a little bit about
how to approach self-awareness or
self-development and there's three
things about the approach that are
really important the first thing is that
you treat it all with gratitude the
second thing is that it's really
important that it's experimentation and
then the third thing that's really
important is that what we're here doing
isn't about improving yourself it's
about discovering your authentic self so
when you're in the middle of learning
something let's say you're playing
tennis and you hit the ball when you're
playing tennis and then you miss and
then you hit and then you miss and then
you hit there's this idea that if you
beat yourself up every time you miss
you're going to somehow improve and
that's not how it works at all in
self-development if you beat yourself up
for not keeping to a practice or if you
keep beat yourself up for not uh
listening with an open heart one thing
that's happening is that you're slowing
down the progress because it's really
important that you titrate that you go
pendulate back and forth to be able to
learn something and so if every time
you're like in the natural learning
process from understanding to not
understanding to understanding to not
understanding if you beat yourself up
then you slow down that entire process
instead of saying oh this is cool the
second thing that's really important is
that at the moment that you realize that
you've forgotten at the moment that you
realize oh I haven't been in the
practice or I haven't been listening
with an open heart then you're listening
with an open heart again then you're in
the practice again and so when you beat
yourself up you're actually beating
yourself up for being in the practice
for the remembering and so the way that
the nervous system works is oh I
remembered you you [__] up and so
you're punishing the remembering so it's
so much better to say oh I've done it
and I'm grateful and oh I just
remembered and I'm grateful that I
remembered also it's just a [__] ton
more fun to be in a place of gratitude
than it is to be in a place of beating
yourself up experimentation is critical
so everybody's brains are a little bit
different everybody was raised
differently and what that means is that
even if let's say that we know what all
the steps are which nobody knows right
all the steps for your particular
development nobody knows what order
those steps should be in and sometimes
the order is more important than the
steps and so no matter what looking for
someone else to tell you your truth is
is NE is never going to work as
effectively is running experiments and
finding out what your own truth is so a
great example of this is let's say
uh you want to figure out how to enjoy
your life more and somebody says it's
really important like I just did I just
said oh hey enjoyment and gratitude is
is far better great so you listen to
that you hear it but instead of going oh
that's right and I'm going to be
grateful [__] that run an experiment say
oh I'm going to do gratitude practice 10
minutes a day for 2 weeks and see what
the hell happens I'm going to be
grateful every time I remember and see
what the hell happens that's a far
better way to do it it than to just take
my word for it one because you learn it
a lot better if you actually are in an
active relationship with it but two is
well maybe gratitude doesn't work for
you right now yeah let's find out or
maybe there's a way in which you can do
gratitude that you're going to discover
in that experimentation that works
better for you and so don't take
anybody's word for it if you hear
something that you think oh that
resonates with me or that's something
that doesn't resonate with me uh is it
triggering me and I want to experiment
with it then design find an experiment
where you get to play with it for a
while and find out what's true for you
so let's say I went out into the world
and I acted like some guy named like Tim
Harris right and I'm like I'm out there
W walking and acting like Tim Harris and
the people who like Tim Harris are going
to be around me and the people who don't
like Tim Harris are going to be away
from me and the people who reward Tim
Harris are going to reward me and the
people who punish Tim Harris are going
to punish me and so I have a world
that's fit for Tim Harris I don't have a
world that's fit for me Joe Hut
but if I'm authentic then I actually
find people who like me and I have a
world that's set up for me if you
improve yourself and you're not yourself
then certain things happen like you can
never love yourself because you can't
love yourself if you're not being
yourself other people can't love you
because then they're loving who you're
trying to be not actually who you are so
you can't actually feel the reward of
living unless you're living as you you
can't get the love you can't enjoy
yourself more importantly than that you
create a life that actually suits you
and so there's this idea somewhere that
there's like one way to succeed there's
one way of being good but there's a
thousand different people completely
different people that are successful in
their own right so that's the third
reason that it's really important to be
authentic and to approach the whole
thing as oh I'm discovering who I am I'm
discovering how to be more me then I'm
thinking about how to improve myself the
reason that all this is important is you
think about this like sports for a
second there's one kid who's like
learning to play volleyball and they are
saying I can't wait to learn volleyball
I'm so excited for volleyball I love
that practice I I can't wait to get out
and give it my best shot and then you
have another person another kid just as
talented who's saying to themselves oh
God I got to do some volleyball today my
mom made me do the volleyball right
you're it's clear who's going to be more
effective so it's the same thing with
self-awareness or transformation as it
is with you know volleyball how you
Orient to it is going to make a huge
difference and so if you think about it
this way hey I can have a a
transformational process where I'm
grateful the whole time or I'm beating
myself up the whole time where I'm
finding out what's true for me and I am
making it Mine by experimenting as
compared to I'm just digesting what
other people tell me is true if I'm
having a transformation
process where I'm learning to be myself
and be fully authentic you're going to
have a far better chance of success but
more importantly you're just going to
have a much better time in your
transformational journey post anything
down there that you have other questions
about other content that you want to see
from us and thanks so much for showing
up